PD-370 Update StorJ Node App Tutorial (#1912)
truenas/documentation: content/SCALE/SCALETutorials/Apps/AddStorjNode.md

tags:
- scalestorjapp
---

{{< toc >}}

Storj is an open-source decentralized cloud storage (DCS) platform. 
Storj permits a computer running this software to configure their system as a node and to rent unused system storage capacity and bandwidth to other users. 

## Before You Begin

Before you can configure your system to act as a Storj node:

1. Review the Storj node hardware and bandwidth considerations at [Storj Node](https://www.storj.io/node).

2. Update [TrueNAS SCALE]({{< relref "UpdateSCALE.md" >}}) to the latest public release.

3. Create a [wallet address](#getting-a-wallet-address). 

4. Generate a [Storj authentication token](#generating-an-authentication-token-for-storj).

5. Open ports on your router and configure port forwarding. Configure firewall rules to [allow access for these ports](#configuring-the-router-and-firewall).
   * Default 20988
   * Open 28967 for both TCP and UDP. 
   * Open ports 7777 and 8888 for outbound communication.

   Alternatively, se a dynamic DNS (DDNS) service such as NoIP to to [create a host name](#creating-a-ddns-host-name) to use if you do not have a static IP address for the system nodes. 

> 6. Create a publicly-available domain name to access the Storj application. Point this to your router public IP address.

Author: we do not use possessive case in the articles.

1. Accept the default name or enter a new name for your Storj application.
{{< hint type=note >}}
You can enter a name for the Storj app using lowercase alphanumeric characters that begin and end with an alphanumeric characters. 
Do not use a hyphenas the first or last character. For example, *storjnode*, or *storj-node*, but not *-storjnode* or *storjnode-*. 
{{< /hint >}}

{{< trueimage src="/images/SCALE/22.12/InstallStorjAppNameSCALE.png" alt="Name Storj App SCALEL" id="5 Name Storj App SCALE" >}}

2. [Enter the wallet address](#getting-a-wallet-address) in **Configure Wallet for Storj**.

{{< trueimage src="/images/SCALE/22.12/InstallStorjAppConfigSCALE.png" alt="Config Storj App SCALE" id="6 Config Storj App SCALE" >}}

3. Enter the [authentication token copied from Storj](#generating-an-authentication-token-for-storj) into **Configure Auth token for Storj Node** and then the email address you associated with the token in **Configure Email for Storj**.

4. Enter the storage domain (i.e., the public network DNS name) added for Storj in **Add Your Storage Domain for Storj**. 
If using Dynamic DNS (DDNS), enter that name here as well. For exampl, *name.ddns.net*.

> 5. Accept the default values in **Owner User ID** and **Owner Group ID**. 

Reviewer: and **Termination Grace Period**?

> 6. Configure the storage size you want to share. Enter the value in GBs in **Configure Storage Size You Want to Share in GB's**.

Reviewer: lot of ins here...

```suggestion
6. Configure the storage size you want to share. Enter the value in **Configure Storage Size You Want to Share in GB's**.
```

Author: This is tricky because we want the user to know to enter a value in Gb or a GB value in the field that says to enter it in GB's... I hate that 's in the UI. I'll reword this.

{{< trueimage src="/images/SCALE/22.12/InstallStorjAppStorageSCALE.png" alt="Allocate Storage Storj App SCALE" id="7 Allocate Storage Storj App SCALE" >}}

7. Enter the host paths for the [new datasets created for the Storj](#creating-the-storj-datasets-on-truenas-scale) application. 
   Select **Enable Custom Host Path for Storj Configuration Volume** and browse to the newly created dataset (*config*). 

>    Next, select **Configure Identity Volume for Storage Node** and browse to the second newly created dataset (*identity*). 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   Next, select **Enable Custom Host Path for Storj Identity Volume** and browse to the second newly created dataset (*identity*). 
```
